---
layout: post
title: "Sushi Go!"
categories: [reviews]
tags: [blog, tabletop, cards, drafting, Gamewright]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

## The What

A light party game for 2 to 5 players.
Best with 4 to 5 players.

## The Summary

Sushi Go is a drafting game, themed around Sushi, traditional sides, and condiments.

At the start of each round each player will start with a hand of cards. From this hand the player will select a card. After all players finish selecting, players will reveal their chosen cards. Finally player will pass their hand to the player (counter-)clockwise from them. From this new hand they repeat the process, until all the cards in hand have been spent ending the round. At the end of a round all players count their points for that round. After 3 rounds the player with the highest total wins.

<!--more-->

## The Puzzle

Mastering Sushi Go requires a careful balance of risk taking with short and long term investments.

Nigiri cards are the simplest they give a raw points value.

However most of the cards have conditions that are need to be fulfilled before yielding points. For example from the core set:

- Wasabi triples the points of the next nigiri a player plays.
- Tempura scores 5 for two.
- Sashimi scores 10 for three.
- Dumplings
- Chopsticks allow you to have a placeholder. Essentially save a position with which you to take an additional card from the same hand.

## Tips

- Know what everyone else is playing and anticipate their strategy.
- Remembering the hands that you've seen will aid your choices.
- Counting cards will help you guess what cards are in play in a round.

## The Verdict

Simple and quick. Sushi Go is great as a quick filler, or a family game. It is a bit lackluster and thus maybe not the best introductory game, but is good at teaching some fundamental gaming concepts that are applicable to modern games.

## Other Games

- Citadels
- Patchwork
- Blood Rage
- Inis
